
  Description & history
 -----------------------

This archive contains a Public Domain library for loading images of various
formats into a C-Style Array and exporting them into other formats. The file
'main.cpp' contains a usage example that generates PNG image, holding a
Mandelbrot set.

I originally started it as a simple *.tga loader for loading textures in
small OpenGL experiments and exporting graphs plotted by functions, but I
ended up making it somewhat modular and adding more and more importers and
exporters for other formats whenever I had time to. That's also why adding
new modules is currently so hard. It wasn't meant to do this in the first
place.
After some time, however, progress stalled and I brought myself to do this
first small release, although I have not implemented everything I wanted to
for the first release.

Because this project(tough small) is one of my bigger out-of-boredome
projects, I would apreciate any comments, bugfixes and contributions under
the condition that any contribution goes into the Public Domain too.
Long things short: Feel free to drop me a line: david.oberhollenzer@tele2.at.


  Features
 ----------

- 100% platform independand(at least MY code)
- CMake buildsystem with lots of configuration options
- Straight forward interface
- Compiles out-of-the-box and can be easyly integrated into any bigger project
- Images can not only be [read from|written to] files but also arbitrary
  derivates of std::istream and std::ostream
- Support for the following image file formats:
    Importing: - Targa Image File (*.tga):
                   8 bpp gray scale,
                   24/32(RGB/RGBA) bpp color mapped,
                   24/32(RGB/RGBA) bpp truecolor,
                   8 bpp gray scale with RLE,
                   24/32(RGB/RGBA) bpp color mapped with RLE,
                   24/32(RGB/RGBA) bpp truecolor with RLE
               - Windows Bitmap (*.bmp):
                   All formats suported
               - PNG's Not Gif (*.png):
                   All formats supported
                   Requires libpng and zlib
               - JPEG interchange format (*.jpg):
                   All formats supported
                   Requires jpeglib
               - ASCII Art(Text to image using a bitmap font)

    Exporting: - Targa Image File (*.tga)
               - Windows Bitmap (*.bmp)
               - PNG's Not Gif (*.png): requires libpng and zlib
               - JPEG interchange format (*.jpg): requires libjpeg
               - ASCII Art: image to text using brightness and
                            optionally ANSI(VT100) color codes.


  Licensing
 -----------

All code written by me(David Oberhollenzer) is released into the Public
Domain, so feel free to use it for anything you would like to.

But please note that my source code is provided "AS IS", without waranty of
any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the waranties of
merchentabillity, fintess for a particular purpose and noninfrindgement. In
no event shall I, the author, be liable for any claim, damages or other
liabillity, whether in an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising from,
out of or in connection with the source code or the use or other dealings in
the source code.

Also note, that this archive does contain source code of third parties, namely
the libpng library, the zlib library and the jpeglib library. Those libraries
are not in the public domain and you will have to respect their terms and
conditions of usage and redistribution if you use them. Their usage is
optional and can be configured out over the build system.

The zlib license can be found in the file "zlib-LICENSE"
The libpng license can be found in the file "libpng-LICENSE"
The libjpeg license can be found in the file "libjpeg-LICENSE"

